

Nick Mazurkin — Software Engineer, Team Lead, Staff Engineer

New York City, USA, greencard, +13477203170, career@mazurk.in, LinkedIn,
GitHub, Resume

Java, Python, Web, DB, No-SQL, Linux, ML, AI, Cloud, K8S

PulsePoint, New York, USA

PulsePoint.com, AdTech, OpenRTB Exchange, DSP, DMP

Software Engineer with Expertise in Java, Python, and ML (Feb 2017 — present)

Experienced software engineer with a proven track record of developing
and deploying high-performance applications using Java, Python, ML,
Linux, and web technologies. Expertise in building and scaling
distributed systems, implementing machine learning models, and
optimizing performance for large-scale data processing.

-   Developed an asynchronous web crawler/fetcher for /ads.txt and
    /app-ads.txt web resources, providing and enhancing transparency and
    trust for the SSP and DSP partners of our Exchange platform
    (processing ~500K domains daily, Java, Spring, Netty).
-   Developed a supply prediction system for RTB traffic, enabling
    clients to switch to a cheaper self-serving platform (processing 24M
    documents daily using Lucene, Spring Framework and ML/CatBoost).
-   Implemented a scoring model to effectively throttle proxy processing
    of incoming supply, selecting only 20% of the most profitable RTB
    requests and blocking 80% of the least profitable supply. This
    resulted in a 50% reduction in the number of required servers.
-   Designed and implemented a DMP platform using asynchronous Java,
    gRPC, Cassandra, and Redis. This platform provides the effective
    solutions for targeting and optimization algorithms, accessing 30
    billion entities with a p99 latency of 5ms and a p50 latency of 1ms.
-   Developed a standalone service for domain attribution, enabling
    efficient domain and application bundle targeting (achieving
    100k/sec QPS using gRPC and REST).
-   Developed a client-side balancing library using the JSQ algorithm
    and circuit-breakers, significantly reducing client-server
    communication latency from p95=6ms to p95=1ms.
-   Containerized and deployed a cluster of DoubleVerify service
    instances, achieving 300k/sec QPS in peak. Implemented custom
    client-side balancing and a low-latency custom client-to-cluster
    connection HTTP/REST library, enabling faster and easier deployments
    with efficient access.
-   Developed a dockerized test infrastructure for custom configuration
    of Redis and Cassandra, similar to TestContainers, which facilitated
    the execution of integration tests.
-   Developed a hierarchy of docker images for ~20 projects written in
    Python, Java, and Jupyter, significantly reducing the time required
    to create new projects.
-   Developed an audience builder for 15 audiences, enabling our client
    to target very specific audiences with focus either on volume or
    accuracy (using Luigi, Hive, and ETL).
-   Successfully resolved 2-3 support issues daily as part of a
    periodical 3rd-line technical on-call support rotation.
-   Implemented several dozen RTB changes in the application stack,
    including improvements, new features, deployments, fixes, and
    monitoring (using Java, Netty, and Linux).
-   Developed an engine for internal reports with embedded alerting,
    enabling transparent and quick monitoring of important pipelines and
    services (using Python, Hive, Impala, and Jupyter). Created 6
    internal engineering reports.
-   Implemented 7 ETL pipelines in Python using Luigi, Docker, Hive, and
    Presto.
-   Implemented 3 production classifiers (using machine learning, Java,
    JPMML, Python, Scikit-learn, and Jupyter) to provide solutions for
    video-completion rate targeting and look-alike audience targeting.
-   Developed a model to predict the quality of NPI attribution,
    enabling clients to select the confidence level for HCP targeting.
-   Developed a model to predict the quality of ICD10 attribution based
    on obfuscated and aggregated clean-room prescription data, enabling
    clients to select DTC audiences based on condition probability.
-   Developed a secure facade to access and process obfuscated
    clean-room data, providing a secure and efficient interface to
    private data (Python, Flask, Gunicorn, Google Cloud API).
-   Implemented and delivered the gender prediction model (Python,
    Sklearn)

Team Lead, Data Science and Engineering team (Apr 2020 — present)

Led a team of 6 data scientists and 3 Java/Python engineers (DSE)
working across 5 time zones, responsible for planning, performance
tracking, coordination, and agile management. Proven ability to lead and
mentor teams, manage projects, and deliver results on time and within
budget.

-   Successfully delivered 3 new internal services and 5 new ML models
    as a team leader.
-   Successfully completed 20 quarterly plans with the team in research,
    development, and deployment.
-   Successfully migrated DSE projects to the new data center.
-   Provided interviewing, on-boarding, and mentoring for new team
    members.
-   Successfully coordinated and communicated with other teams and team
    leaders on numerous projects.
-   Successfully maintained an iterative Agile framework, including
    scrum, retrospectives, and prioritization of tasks.

Deutsche Bank

Deutsche Bank Technology Center, Moscow, RU

Senior Software Java Engineer, AVP (Jun 2016 — Feb 2017)

-   Implemented several new algorithms, code and concurrency
    improvements to the dbCAP project achieving the required performance
    of the solution (exchange events messaging on Solace System message
    broker, KDB+, java).
-   Successfully implemented the test suite for the legacy projects
    allowing to extend the life-time and reliability of the legacy
    projects (process control, runtime log analyzers, TeamCity,
    environment settings).
-   Improved the internal messaging framework based on Solace Systems
    message broker (achieved up to 160000 messages/sec stored reliably
    to the disk), introduced solutions for the performance metering.
-   Designed and implemented the multithreaded and garbage-less
    algorithms and structures (Java) for message acknowledgement in
    complex environments to provide effective processing without long GC
    pauses.
-   Implemented a modern front-end build toolchain for the legacy
    project, added the required UI features for the project (Angular 2,
    NPM, RxJs, TypeScript, TSLint, System.js, Rollup, jQuery,
    Bootstrap).

OK.ru

OK.ru, Moscow, RU, the one of the largest social networks (54 MAU)

Senior Software Java Developer (Oct 2012 — May 2016)

-   Implemented a multiple features in the searching infrastructure of
    the OK.ru service: backend services, data storages, relevancy
    customization, indexation, replication (Apache Lucene, Spring
    Framework, Web Services, SQL/noSQL, Linux)
-   Fixed multiple legacy issues in L12N infrastructure for the OK.ru
    service including the resources editor, Java frameworks and workflow
    process, achieved resource propagation to ~2000 servers.
-   Make significant contribution to the moderation and antispam
    services, architecture and implementation, implemented NSFW
    detector, spam detector (based on naive bayes detector), UGC filter
    cluster (near real-time voting-quorum service).
-   Successfully designed, implemented and run the MVP for the startup
    project (Tinder-alike) in very short time (3 months), created the
    architecture of the service including SOA, custom search service,
    asynchronous binary client protocol, push service (GCM), photo
    uploading/processing/distribution service, statistics and analytics
    (apache netty, apache cassandra, kafka, queues, messaging, mobile
    apps, python, machine learning).

Education

Mari State Technical University (1994 — 1999)

Yoshkar-Ola, Russia, “Computing machines, complexes, systems, and
networks”, Engineer (with honors, equivalent to a master’s degree)

Open Source projects

net-crusher (2016)

TCP/UDP proxy library for automated and manual connectivity testing
(used by RabbitMQ, Aerospike, Terracotta), more: project, sources,
usages

Resume

The latest and the most detailed resume can be downloaded in different
document formats at https://mazurk.in
